Open Government License
https://www.nationalarchives.gov.uk/doc/open-government-licence/version/3/

==================================================================================
From official Practice Theory Test for Car Drivers (www.safedrivingforlife.info)

Practice Theory Test for Car Drivers

You have to answer 50 questions, and you need to get 43 right to pass the test. You have 57 minutes to do it.

You can review your answers at the end of the test, and then take a second practice test.

You can’t practise the hazard perception test using this service.
--------------------------------------------
Q1  A heavy load on your roof rack will
    improve the road holding
    make the steering lighter
    reduce the stopping distance
(A) reduce stability
    
Q2  Why should you switch off your rear fog lights when the fog has cleared?
    To allow your headlights to work
    To stop the engine losing power
    To stop draining the battery
(A) To prevent dazzling following drivers
    
Q3 What style of driving causes increased risk to everyone?
    Considerate
(A) Competitive
    Defensive
    Responsible
    
Q4 The white line along the side of the road [PICTURE]
(A) shows the edge of the carriageway
    means no parking
    shows the approach to a hazard
    means no overtaking

Q5  You see this white arrow on the road ahead. It means [PICTURE]
    entrance on the left
(A) keep left of the hatched markings
    all vehicles turn left
    road bending to the left
    
Q6  What will reduce the risk of neck injury resulting from a collision?
    An air-sprung seat
    A collapsible steering wheel
    Anti-lock brakes
(A) A properly adjusted head restraint
    
Q7  A casualty has an injured arm. They can move it freely but it is bleeding. Why should you get them to keep it in a raised position?
    Because it will ease the pain
    To stop them touching other people  
    It will help them to be seen more easily
(A) It will help to reduce the blood flow
    
Q8  When should you use hazard warning lights?
    When you are double-parked on a two way road
    When warning oncoming traffic that you intend to stop
    When your direction indicators are not working
(A) When your vehicle has broken down and is causing an obstruction
    
Q9  Excessive or uneven tyre wear can be caused by faults in the
    gearbox
(A) suspension
    engine
    exhaust system

Q10  You want to turn left at this junction. The view of the main road is restricted. What should you do? [PICTURE]
    Stay well back and wait to see if something comes
    Stop and apply the handbrake even if the road is clear
    Build up your speed so that you can emerge quickly
(A) Approach slowly and edge out until you can see more clearly
    
Q11 The left-hand lane of a motorway should be used for [picture]
    breakdowns and emergencies only
    slow vehicles only
    overtaking slower traffic in the other lanes
(A) normal driving
    
Q12 You're in collision with another moving vehicle. Someone is injured and your vehicle is damaged. What information should you find out?
    Whether the other driver is licensed to drive
    The destination of the other driver
(A) The other driver's name, address and telephone number
    The occupation of the other driver
    
Q13  How will a school crossing patrol signal you to stop?
    By pointing to children on the opposite pavement
(A) By displaying a stop sign
    By displaying a red light
    By giving you an arm signal
    
Q14 You are driving along a road that has a cycle lane. The lane is marked by a solid white line. This means that during its period of operation
    the lane may be used for parking your car
    the lane may be used when necessary
    you may drive in that lane at any time
(A) you must not drive in that lane
    
Q15 You want to reverse into a side road. You are not sure that the area behind your car is clear. What should you do?
    Look through the rear window only
    Check the mirrors only
(A) Get out and check
    Carry on, assuming it is clear
    
Q16 You have to leave valuables in your car. It would be safer to
    put them in a carrier bag
(A) lock them out of sight
    park near a school entrance
    park near a bus stop
    
Q17 You are driving behind a large goods vehicle. It signals left but steers to the right. You should
(A) slow down and let the vehicle turn
    overtake on the right of it
    drive on, keeping to the left
    hold your speed and sound your horn
    
Q18 You get a puncture on the motorway. You manage to get your vehicle onto the hard shoulder. You should
    change the wheel yourself immediately
    try to wave down another vehicle for help
(A) use the emergency telephone and call for assistance
    only change the wheel if you have a passenger to help you
    
Q19 What does the solid white line at the side of the road indicate? [PICTURE]
    Traffic lights ahead
    Footpath on the left
(A) Edge of the carriageway
    Cycle path
    
Q20 You want to park and you see this sign. On the days and times shown you should [PICTURE]
    park in a bay and not pay
    park on yellow lines and not pay
    park on yellow lines and pay
(A) park in a bay and pay
    
Q21 You are behind this cyclist. When the traffic lights change, what should you do? [PICTURE]
    Try to move off before the cyclist
    Turn right but give the cyclist room
(A) Allow the cyclist time and room
    Tap your horn and drive through first
    
Q22 How can driving in an ecosafe manner help protect the environment?
    Through the legal enforcement of speed regulations
    Through increased fuel bills
    By increasing the number of cars on the road
(A) By reducing exhaust emissions
    
Q23 You are waiting to emerge from a junction. The windscreen pillar is restricting your view. What should you be particularly aware of? [PICTURE]
    Lorries
(A) Motorcyclists
    Buses
    Coaches
    
Q24 You are driving along this road. The red van cuts in close in front of you. What should you do? [PICTURE]
    Accelerate to get closer to the red van
(A) Drop back to leave the correct separation distance
    Give a long blast on the horn
    Flash your headlights several times
    
Q25 You're driving in town. Ahead of you a bus is at a bus stop. Which of the following should you do?
    Flash your lights to warn the driver of your presence
(A) Watch carefully for the sudden appearance of pedestrians
    Continue at the same speed but sound your horn as a warning
    Pass the bus as quickly as you possibly can
    
Q26 You will find that driving smoothly can
    reduce journey times by about 15%
(A) reduce fuel consumption by about 15%
    increase fuel consumption by about 15%
    increase journey times by about 15%
    
Q27 What should you do when parking your vehicle facing downhill?
(A) Turn the steering wheel towards the kerb
    Park with two wheels on the kerb
    Park close to the bumper of another car
    Turn the steering wheel away from the kerb
    
Q28 As you approach a pelican crossing the lights change to green. Elderly people are halfway across. You should
    wave them to cross as quickly as they can
    flash your lights in case they have not heard you
    rev your engine to make them hurry
(A) wait because they will take longer to cross
    
Q29 You see a pedestrian with a white stick and red band. This means that the person is
    physically disabled
    blind only
    deaf only
(A) deaf and blind
    
Q30 You are waiting at a T-junction. A vehicle is coming from the right with the left signal flashing. What should you do? [PICTURE]
    Move out and accelerate hard
    Pull out before the vehicle reaches the junction
(A) Wait until the vehicle starts to turn in
    Move out slowly
    
Q31 You are driving on a motorway. You have to slow down quickly due to a hazard. You should
(A) switch on your hazard lights
    sound your horn
    switch on your headlights
    flash your headlights
    
Q32 You are driving in a built-up area. You approach a speed hump. You should [PICTURE]
    move across to the left-hand side of the road
(A) slow your vehicle right down
    wait for any pedestrians to cross
    stop and check both pavements
    
Q33 You may drive over a footpath
    to overtake slow-moving traffic
    if no pedestrians are near
    when the pavement is very wide
(A) to get into a property
    
Q34 You are driving on a clear night. There is a steady stream of oncoming traffic. The national speed limit applies. Which lights should you use?
    Full beam headlights
(A) Dipped headlights
    Sidelights
    Fog lights
    
Q35 When may you use hazard warning lights when driving?
    Instead of sounding the horn in a built-up area between 11.30 pm and 7 am
    On rural routes, after a warning sign of animals
(A) On a motorway or unrestricted dual carriageway, to warn of a hazard ahead
    On the approach to toucan crossings where cyclists are waiting to cross
    
Q36 Objects hanging from your interior mirror may
(A) restrict your view
    keep you focused
    improve your driving
    help your concentration
    
Q37 You are driving towards this level crossing. What would be the first warning of an approaching train? [PICTURE]
    Both half barriers down
    One half barrier down
(A) A steady amber light
    Twin flashing red lights
    
Q38 A single carriageway road has this sign. What is the maximum permitted speed for a car towing a trailer? [NATIONAL SPEED LIMIT SIGN]
    30 mph
    40 mph
(A) 50 mph
    60 mph

Q39 Your vehicle has anti-lock brakes, but they may not always prevent skidding. This is most likely to happen when driving
    in foggy conditions
(A) on loose road surfaces
    at night on unlit roads
    on dry tarmac
    
Q40 You have been driving in thick fog which has now cleared. You must switch OFF your rear fog lights because [repeated/rephrased]
    they use a lot of power from the battery
    they will cause dazzle in your rear view mirrors
(A) they make your brake lights less clear
    they may not be properly adjusted
    
Q41 At an incident someone is unconscious. What would your priority be?
    Find out their name
    Make them comfortable
    Wake them up
(A) Check their airway is clear
    
Q42 How old must you be to supervise a learner driver?
    18 years old
    19 years old
    20 years old
(A) 21 years old
    
Q43 Why should you allow extra room when overtaking a motorcyclist on a windy day?
    The rider may turn off suddenly to get out of the wind
(A) The rider may be blown across in front of you
    The rider may stop suddenly
    The rider may be travelling faster than normal
    
Q44 You are driving along this road. What should you be prepared to do? [PICTURE - A LORRY IS PULLING OUT IN AN ONCOMING DIRECTION]
    Sound your horn and continue
(A) Slow down and give way
    Report the driver to the police
    Squeeze through the gap

Q45 You are about to go down a steep hill. To control the speed of your vehicle you should
    select a high gear and use the brakes carefully
    select a high gear and use the brakes firmly
(A) select a low gear and use the brakes carefully
    select a low gear and avoid using the brakes
    
Q46 You are waiting to emerge at a junction. Your view is restricted by parked vehicles. What can help you to see traffic on the road you are joining?
    Looking for traffic behind you
(A) Reflections of traffic in shop windows
    Making eye contact with other road users
    Checking for traffic in your interior mirror
    
Q47 You are at the front of a queue of traffic waiting to turn right into a side road. Why is it important to check your right mirror just before turning?
    To look for pedestrians about to cross
(A) To check for overtaking vehicles
    To make sure the side road is clear
    To check for emerging traffic
    
Q48 Which of these should you allow extra room when overtaking?
    Lorry
    Tractor
(A) Bicycle
    Road-sweeping vehicle
    
Q49 When leaving your vehicle parked and unattended you should
    park near a busy junction
    park in a housing estate
(A) remove the key and lock it
    leave the left indicator on
    
Q50 You are carrying two 13 year old children and their parents in your car. Who is responsible for seeing that the children wear seat belts?
    The children's parents
(A) You, the driver
    The front-seat passenger
    The children
    
Q51 What is the national speed limit for cars and motorcycles in the centre lane of a three-lane motorway?
    40 mph
    50 mph
    60 mph
(A) 70 mph
    
Q52 At toucan crossings
    you only stop if someone is waiting to cross
    cyclists are not permitted
    there is a continuously flashing amber beacon
(A) pedestrians and cyclists may cross
    
Q53 You are turning left at a junction. Pedestrians have started to cross the road. You should [picture]
    go on, giving them plenty of room
    stop and wave at them to cross
    blow your horn and proceed
(A) give way to them
    
Q54 What type of vehicle could you expect to meet in the middle of the road? [picture - going under a low bridge]
(A) Lorry
    Bicycle
    Car
    Motorcycle
Q55 You are taking drugs that are likely to affect your driving. What should you do?
(A) Seek medical advice before driving
    Limit your driving to essential journeys
    Only drive if accompanied by a full licence-holder
    Drive only for short distances
    
Q56 A bus lane on your left shows no times of operation. This means it is [picture]
    not in operation at all
    only in operation at peak times
(A) in operation 24 hours a day
    only in operation in daylight hours
    
Q57 Your vehicle needs a current MOT certificate. Until you have one you will NOT be able to
    renew your driving licence
    change your insurance company
(A) renew your vehicle excise licence
    notify a change of address
    
Q58 You are driving on a motorway. By mistake, you go past the exit that you wanted to take. You should
    carefully reverse on the hard shoulder
(A) carry on to the next exit
    carefully reverse in the left-hand lane
    make a U-turn at the next gap in the central reservation
    
Q59 You have been involved in an argument before starting your journey. This has made you feel angry. You should
    start to drive, but open a window
    drive slower than normal and turn your radio on
    have an alcoholic drink to help you relax before driving
(A) calm down before you start to drive
    
Q60 A roof rack fitted to your car will
    reduce fuel consumption
    improve the road handling
    make your car go faster
(A) increase fuel consumption
    
Q61 This traffic sign means there is [picture - 50 mph, yellow sign, says "3/4 mile ahead"]
(A) a compulsory maximum speed limit
    an advisory maximum speed limit
    a compulsory minimum speed limit
    an advised separation distance
    
Q62 You arrive at an incident where someone is suffering from severe burns. You should
    apply lotions to the injury
    burst any blisters
    remove anything stuck to the burns
(A) douse the burns with clean cool non-toxic liquid
    
Q63 Immediately after joining a motorway you should normally
    try to overtake
    re-adjust your mirrors
    position your vehicle in the centre lane
(A) keep in the left-hand lane
    
Q64 There is a police car following you. The police officer flashes the headlights and points to the left. What should you do?
    Turn left at the next junction
(A) Pull up on the left
    Stop immediately
    Move over to the left
    
Q65 You are on a fast, open road in good conditions. For safety, the distance between you and the vehicle in front should be
(A) a two-second time gap
    one car length
    2 metres (6 feet 6 inches)
    two car lengths

Q66 Anti-lock brakes prevent wheels from locking. This means the tyres are less likely to
    aquaplane
(A) skid
    puncture
    wear
    
Q67 Some two-way roads are divided into three lanes. Why are these particularly dangerous?
(A) Traffic in both directions can use the middle lane to overtake
    Traffic can travel faster in poor weather conditions
    Traffic can overtake on the left
    Traffic uses the middle lane for emergencies only
    
Q68 Where is the safest place to park your vehicle at night?
(A) In a garage
    On a busy road
    In a quiet car park
    Near a red route
    
Q69 Hazard warning lights should be used when vehicles are
(A) broken down and causing an obstruction
    faulty and moving slowly
    being towed along a road
    reversing into a side road
    
Q70 You have broken down on a two-way road. You have a warning triangle. You should place the warning triangle at least how far from your vehicle? [picture of warning triangle]
    5 metres (16 feet)
    25 metres (82 feet)
(A) 45 metres (147 feet)
    100 metres (328 feet)
    
Q71 When may you sound the horn?
    To give you right of way
    To attract a friend's attention
(A) To warn others of your presence
    To make slower drivers move over
    
Q71 At a railway level crossing the red light signal continues to flash after a train has gone by. What should you do?
    Phone the signal operator
    Alert drivers behind you
(A) Wait
    Proceed with caution
    
Q72 You have to treat someone for shock at the scene of an incident. You should
(A) reassure them constantly
    walk them around to calm them down
    give them something cold to drink
    cool them down as soon as possible
    
Q73 You are driving on the motorway in windy conditions. When passing high-sided vehicles you should
    increase your speed
(A) be wary of a sudden gust
    drive alongside very closely
    expect normal conditions
    
Q74 You're driving along a country road. A horse and rider are approaching. What should you do?
    Increase your speed
    Sound your horn
    Flash your headlights
(A) Drive slowly past

Q75 You are driving along a country road. You see this sign. AFTER dealing safely with the hazard you should always  [picture: red-edge triangle "Ford"]
    check your tyre pressures
    switch on your hazard warning lights
    accelerate briskly
(A) test your brakes
    
Q76 You feel drowsy when driving. You should
(A) stop and rest as soon as possible
    turn the heater up to keep you warm and comfortable
    close the car windows to help you concentrate
    continue with your journey but drive more slowly
    
Q77 As a provisional licence holder you should not drive a car
    over 30 mph
    at night
(A) on the motorway
    with passengers in rear seats
    
Q78 When MUST you stop your vehicle?
(A) If you're involved in an incident that causes damage or injury
    At a junction where there are 'give way' lines
    At the end of a one-way street
    Before merging onto a motorway

Q79 What does this sign mean? [picture - blue circle with circular arrows]
    Buses turning
    Ring road
(A) Mini-roundabout
    Keep right
    
Q80 How will your vehicle be affected when you drive up steep hills?
    The higher gears will pull better
    The steering will feel heavier
    Overtaking will be easier
(A) The engine will work harder
    
Q81 You are driving along this road. The driver on the left is reversing from a driveway. You should [picture of narrow residential road with driveways]
    move to the opposite side of the road
    drive through as you have priority
(A) sound your horn and be prepared to stop
    speed up and drive through quickly
    
Q82 The road outside this school is marked with yellow zigzag lines. What do these lines mean? [picture]
    You may park on the lines when dropping off schoolchildren
    You may park on the lines when picking schoolchildren up
(A) You must not wait or park your vehicle here at all
    You must stay with your vehicle if you park here
    
Q83 You're driving in heavy traffic on a wet road. Spray makes it difficult to be seen. You should use your
    full-beam headlights
    sidelights only
    rear fog lights if visibility is more than 100 metres (328 feet)
(A) dipped headlights
    
Q84 You want to turn right from a main road into a side road. Just before turning you should
    cancel your right-turn signal
    select first gear
(A) check for traffic overtaking on your right
    stop and set the handbrake
    
Q85 You see this sign ahead. It means [picture - round circular blue sign with red border and red 'X' through it]
    national speed limit applies
    waiting restrictions apply
(A) no stopping
    no entry
    
Q86 What is the safest way to use a mobile phone in your vehicle?
    Use hands-free equipment
(A) Find a suitable place to stop
    Drive slowly on a quiet road
    Direct your call through the operator
    
Q87 Why would you fit a stabiliser before towing a caravan?
(A) It will help with stability when driving in crosswinds
    It will allow heavy items to be loaded behind the axle
    It will help you to raise and lower the jockey wheel
    It will allow you to tow without the breakaway cable
    
Q88 What can cause heavy steering?
    Driving on ice
    Badly worn brakes
    Over-inflated tyres
(A) Under-inflated tyres
    
Q89 You want to turn right at a box junction. There is oncoming traffic. You should
(A) wait in the box junction if your exit is clear
    wait before the junction until it is clear of all traffic
    drive on, you cannot turn right at a box junction
    drive slowly into the box junction when signalled by oncoming traffic
    
Q90 What will improve fuel consumption?
(A) Reducing your speed
    Rapid acceleration
    Late and harsh braking
    Driving in lower gears
    
Q91 You are driving in traffic at the speed limit for the road. The driver behind is trying to overtake. You should
    move closer to the car ahead, so the driver behind has no room to overtake
    wave the driver behind to overtake when it is safe
(A) keep a steady course and allow the driver behind to overtake
    accelerate to get away from the driver behind
    
Q92 A person herding sheep asks you to stop. You should
    ignore them as they have no authority
(A) stop and switch off your engine
    continue on but drive slowly
    try and get past quickly
    
Q93 You are driving on a motorway and want to use your mobile phone. What should you do?
    Try to find a safe place on the hard shoulder
(A) Leave the motorway and stop in a safe place
    Use the next exit and pull up on the slip road
    Move to the left lane and reduce your speed

Q94 An injured motorcyclist is lying unconscious in the road. You should always
    remove the safety helmet
(A) seek medical assistance
    move the person off the road
    remove the leather jacket
    
Q95 You are driving in heavy rain. Your steering suddenly becomes very light. You should
    steer towards the side of the road
    apply gentle acceleration
    brake firmly to reduce speed
(A) ease off the accelerator
    
Q96 When may you reverse from a side road into a main road?
    Only if both roads are clear of traffic
(A) Not at any time
    At any time
    Only if the main road is clear of traffic
    
Q97 You are towing a trailer on a motorway. What is your maximum speed limit?
    40 mph
    50 mph
(A) 60 mph
    70 mph
    

=====================================================================================================
'Show me, tell me' questions (https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/car-and-trailer-show-me-tell-me-vehicle-safety-questions/car-and-trailer-show-me-tell-me-vehicle-safety-questions) 

You’ll be asked 5 vehicle safety questions. These are also known as the ‘show me, tell me’ questions.

The examiner will ask you ‘show me’ questions, where you’ll have to show them how you’d carry out a vehicle safety check.

You’ll also be asked ‘tell me’ questions, where you’ll have to explain to the examiner how you’d carry out the check.

Q98 Open the bonnet, identify where the brake fluid reservoir is and tell me how you would check that you have a safe level of hydraulic brake fluid.
    Identify reservoir, check level against high/low markings.

Q99 Show me how you would check that the direction indicators are working.
    Applying the indicators or hazard warning switch and checking functioning of all indicators.
    
Q100 Tell me the main safety factors involved in loading this vehicle.
    The load should be distributed evenly throughout the trailer. Heavy items should be loaded as low as possible so that they are mainly over the axle(s). Bulkier, lighter items should be distributed to give a suitable ‘nose weight’ at the towing coupling. The nose weight should never exceed the vehicle manufacturer’s specifications.
    
Q101 Tell me the main safety factors involved in securing a load on this vehicle.
    Any load must be carried so that it does not endanger other road users. It must be securely stowed within the size and weight limits for the vehicle. The load needs to be secure so that it cannot move or fall from the vehicle when cornering or braking.
    
Q102 Show me how you would check that your vehicle and trailer doors are secure.
    Physical checks should be made to ensure that windows, roof light and all doors, including cargo doors, are properly closed.

Q103 Tell me how you would check the tyres to ensure that they have sufficient tread depth and that their general condition is safe to use on the road.
    No cuts and bulges, 1.6mm of tread depth across the central Â¾ of the breadth of the tyre and around the entire outer circumference.
    
Q104 Show me how you would check that the horn is working (off road only).
    Check is carried out by using control (turn on ignition if necessary).

Q105 Open the bonnet, identify where you would check the engine coolant level and tell me how you would check that the engine has the correct level.
    Identify high/low level markings on header tank where fitted or radiator filler cap, and describe how to top up to correct level.
    
Q106 Show me how you would check the parking brake for excessive wear.
    Demonstrate by applying parking brake that when it is fully applied it secures itself, and is not at the end of the working travel.
    
Q107 Show me how you would clean the windscreen using the windscreen washer and wipers.
    Operate control to wash and wipe windscreen (turn ignition on if necessary).
    
Q108 Show me how you would set the demister controls to clear all the windows effectively, this should include both front and rear screens.
    Set all relevant controls including; fan, temperature, air direction / source and heated screen to clear windscreen and windows. Engine does not have to be started for this demonstration.
    
Q109 Show me how you would switch on the rear fog light(s) and explain when you would use it/them (no need to exit vehicle).
    Operate switch (turn on dipped headlights and ignition if necessary). Check warning light is on. Explain use.
    
Q110 Show me how you switch your headlight from dipped to main beam and explain how you would know the main beam is on whilst inside the car.
    Operate switch (with ignition or engine on if necessary), check with main beam warning light.
    
Q111 Show me how you would check that the brake lights are working on this vehicle (I can assist you, if you need to switch the ignition on, please don’t start the engine).
    Operate brake pedal, make use of reflections in windows, garage doors, etc, or ask someone to help.

Q112 Tell me how you make sure your head restraint is correctly adjusted so it provides the best protection in the event of a crash.
    The head restraint should be adjusted so the rigid part of the head restraint is at least as high as the eye or top of the ears, and as close to the back of the head as is comfortable. Some restraints might not be adjustable.

